{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 GradeLedger User's Guide\
\
The Students tab is where all information related to students (except for scores) are stored.  Here the user can add, remove, and even duplicate students.  Every student can have a name, id number, email address, guardian names, and other attributes. \
\
The Assignments tab is where all assignment information is stored.  Assignments can have a name, maximum possible score, a category, a due date, and a curve.  Categories usually include Quizzes, Homework, Projects, and Exams, but need to be set in the Category tab before being used in the Assignments tab.  The curve setting allows users to quickly apply a curve to all student scores on a particular assignment.  For example, say a student got a 56 out of 70 on an exam.  If the curve was set to "x+2", the student would really receive a 58.  Curves should always be written without an f(x) or "=" portion.  The due date is informational, but very important for the attendance tab, described below.\
\
The Categories tab allows users to group assignments into different areas as listed above.  Once a category is created, assignments in the Assignments tab can then join the category.  Categories have several attributes, including a name, percent of final score, assignments in category, total points, curve, and an option to drop the lowest score.  Assignments in category and total points are not editable from the Categories tab - they are simply a display of information set in the Assignments tab.  The curve setting works pretty much the same way as in the Assignments tab - after all the points are added up in a category, then the curve is applied to that point total.  \
\
The percent of final score is the trickiest part in the Categories tab.  By default it does nothing, but it can be enabled through the Settings tab.  When enabled, the percent of final score allows you to weight categories more or less than other categories.  For example, if a user wanted 10% of grades to come from homework, then the percent of final score should be set to 10, not 0.10.  Usually, users will want the total of the percents to add up to 100% - in the event that they do not, special considerations are taken.  For instance, if all the categories add up to is 90%, then the final grade will be evaluated out of 90% instead of 100%.  The same happens if the total is greater than 100%.  This essentially means that a student won't automatically lose 10% of their grade because 10% isn't accounted for.  In another case, If there are any assignments that were not assigned a category, then they will enter a new category that will account for the missing 10%.  So you could technically set up tests to be 50% and quizzes to by 40% and leave all assignments that are homework with no category, and they will automatically take up 10% of the final grade.  In the event that 100% or more of the grade is accounted for by categories, but there are still some assignments that are not in any category, then those assignment points will simply be ignored; there is no way at that point for the program to even guess what you really intended to happen.  To be safe when you enable category weightings, make sure you put every assignment in a category and don't have the percents total over 100%.  One final note: curves will always be applied before percentages.\
\
The Settings tab provides you with several controls over the way GradeLedger behaves.  Here you can enable and disable the use of category weightings, tell GradeLedger to display all scores as raw or with curves and penalties (Scores tab), and tell GradeLedger to beep whenever entering a score that exceeds the maximum possible score for an assignment, unless the max is 0.  Here users can set their grade scale as well.  GradeLedger will not force your grading system to make sense, so it's possible for ranges to overlap or to not cover certain scores.  GradeLedger reads from top to bottom, looking for a range which a students score fits between.  If no such range can be found, a question mark is displayed.  The Settings tab also allows users to apply certain penalties when an assignment is late, or if a student is tardy or absent on the day the assignment is due.  The late penalty is applied if an assignment is turned in passed the due date unless it is specifically marked as late in the Scores tab.  Percentages are applied after any specific assignment curves.  Also, 10% should be entered as 10, not 0.10.  These penalties will only be applied if they are manually set in the Scores tab.  The Settings tab also allows for a final curve to be applied to a score.  When category weightings are on, the final score will be a number out of 100 before the curve is applied.  \
\
The Class Info tab is where a great deal of basic info can be stored, including your email address, phone number, website, etc.  If this information is set, it can then be used in other parts of the program, such as to automatically put your email/phone number in email notifications sent to students.\
\
The photo roster tab allows you to view your students' faces and their names at a glance.  Calling on students by name just got a whole lot easier.   Take a students picture file from the Finder and drag it onto a student's placeholder to save the image in the class file.\
\
In the Attendance tab,  in order to record attendance, just type in a two letter code to indicate a students status on a given day - ex means excused, ab means absent, ta means tardy.  When the attendance status of a student is changes, any assignments falling on that due date will be marked with the same code in the Score table, referenced below.  If an assignments due date is ever changed, it will not inherent the attendance attributes of that new due date.  Changing the code manually in the Score table will not effect the corresponding setting in the Attendance tab.  To switch between months, click the "Next Month" and "Previous Month" button.\
\
In the Scores tab, students scores are set and final scores are displayed.  Unless changed in the preferences, all displayed scores are shown as curved.  That means if an assignment has a curve of "x+2" and a student received a 3 on the assignment, a 5 will be displayed instead.  When editing the score, though, it will show up as a 3.  In addition, two popup buttons in the upper right allow for two attributes to be applied to a score.  First, the date popup allows the user to set what date the assignment was turned in.  By default, it will be set to today, but that may not always be the case.  To choose another date, click the "Other..." item and enter the date in the accompanying sheet.  The turned in date is only informational - assignments must be marked late manually.  To do so, click the code popup button and select the "Late" item.  By doing so, the students score for that assignment will be changed by any accompanying penalties, and a specific color will fill the score box, indicating visually that the assignment was late.  For space reasons, scores are not displayed with decimal parts, even though in the background GradeLedger does all it's calculations using them.  Therefore, if a score of 3 has a 10% off penalty for being late, it will show up as a 2, when in reality it is a 2.7.  The absent code setting has no effect on a score, and the excused setting makes the assignment count for no points (doesn't effect students score).\
\
There is a Notification Manager, a system that allows you to create automatic emails for students (if students have their email setting set) when certain events occur, such as missing a number of assignments over the past week or being tardy on the previous day (all notifications skip the current day and start with the day before).  Notifications may also be logged in the your class info for future reference.  The Manager will also replace the following wild cards in messages if present with the appropriate info from the Info tab:\
\
	<insert class name>\
    	<insert class description>\
    	<insert class description long>\
    	<insert school homepage>\
    	<insert school name>\
    	<insert school phone number>\
     \
    	<insert email address>\
    	<insert department>\
    	<insert work phone number>\
    	<insert name>\
    	<insert office hours>\
    	<insert homepage>\
\
For example, the message "My name is <insert name>" would be magically changed to "My name is Dr. Jones" when the notification is posted, assuming you set the name to be Dr. Jones in the Info tab.\
\
In addition to notifications, GradeLedger has a statistics calculator, accessible under the File menu.  Here you may calculate the mean (average), mode (most common score), median (middle score), standard deviation (average difference from mean), variance (standard deviation squared), maximum, and minimum of an assignment, group of assignments, or all assignments in a category or categories.  Students can be chosen on an individual basis as well.  For each assignment, the variance is defined as a percent of the maximum assignment score is calculated.  Then, all the assignment variances are averaged.  This represents an average variance, although only percent difference matters and not the difference in points i.e. 2 out of 3 points and 20 out of 30 points on an assignment would effect the average variance in the same way.  All statistical calculations ignore category weightings and the final score curve except if performing a calculation on the final score.\
\
Finally, GradeLedger can print individual and group reports student scores, and attendance.  When requesting a print from the File menu, a prep sheet will appear with several options, including which students to include and what assignments to include.  Individual reports can include a great deal of assignment information that users may not need, but from the options popup button users can turn off unnecessary information.  Also, you may output your scores, and attendance to html for publishing to the web.  Student names are by default set to be displayed as ID numbers instead of student names to protect student privacy; if no ID number is specified, student names will be displayed.  Creating individual reports will create multiple html and/or image files, as will creating a seating chart, so you may want to create a folder first to export to.  \
\
GradeLedger is class based, meaning that each document represents a class, instead of one document holding several classes.  }